Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programming languages allow us to give instructions to a computer in a language the computer understand.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.  The Java Development Kit, or JDK, is a comprehensive set of tools, utilities, documentation, and sample code for developing Java programs. Major components of JDK are compiler, run-time interpreter, JRE and JAVA API library, JVM.
      The Java compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes. In Java, source code files have the extension .java. The Java compiler takes files with this extension and generates executable class files with the .class extension.
      The runtime interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format. The runtime interpreter acts as a command-line tool for running nongraphical Java programs.
      JRE is JAVA Run-time Environment.
      The Java Debugger, jdb, is a simple command-line debugger for Java classes. It is a demonstration that provides inspection and debugging of a local or remote Java Virtual Machine.
      JVM is called Java Virtual Machine. It is an abstract computing machine that is responsible for executing Java programs. When you write a Java program, the source code is compiled into byte code which is understandable by the JVM. Upon execution, the JVM translates byte code into machine code of the target operating system.

What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that provides comprehensive
 facilities to computer programmers for software development.

what are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, JetBrains, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Studio C++, RubyMine etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A: Editor>>Source Code>> Java Compiler>>> Byte code >>JVM >>Operating system.
Java codes in an editor or in an IDE for example; Eclipse, NetBeans.
Our written code is called Source code which is saved into a Source file, whose extension is .java. Next step is to
compile the source code, means translating into bytecode. Bytecode works machine language for JVM (Java Virtual Machine)
and it's extension for .class . JVM uses 4 of its major components to run a java program: (a) Class loader loads the
bytecode from hard drive into RAM (since JVM resides on RAM-Random Access Memory). (b) then the bytecode goes through
bytecode verifier. (c) bytecode verifier verifies that no unnecessary classes can be run on JVM meaning java is secured
and (d)then bytecodes go to Execution engine, which translates bytecode into native machine code, with the help of JIT
Code Generator.

what is class?
A. Blue print of an object.

What is object?
A. Instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Why main is static?

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A:   Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A:-Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A:-      1. Interface support multiple implementation.
         2. Interface does not contain data member
         3. . Interface does not contain constructor
         4. Interface contain only incomplete member
         5.Interface cannot have access spicifiers by default, everything is assume as public
         6. Member of interface cannot  static
Abstract:
     1.	Abstract class does not support multiple inheritance
     2.	Abstract class contains data member
     3.	Abstract class contains constructors
     4.	Abstract class contains both incomplete member and complete member
     5.	Abstract class contains access specifiers for the subs, functions and properties
     6.	Only comple member of Abstract class can be static.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: No but you can create an object in a regular or concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
A:- The  access specifiers private and protected cannot be assigned to a class.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: Object Oriented Programming
     Abstraction:abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details from the user
     Encapsulation: data hiding
     Inheritance:Classes can be derived from other classes, thereby inheriting fields and methods from those classes
     Polymorphism:Polymorphism means having many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A: An application programming interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications.
API used: scanner, random, array, exception handling, buffer reader and file reader.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans. java doesn't allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans. Same method name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans. It is an event which occurs during the execution of a program which disrupts the program's instructions. It is
handled by try and catch block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans. Static keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class.
we can use static method and variable by direct call and by class name.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Answer:it can only be assigned once. Once a final variable has been assigned, it always contains the same value.
     final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.

- final variable is used to create constant variables
- final method is used to prevent method overriding.


What is final, finally and finalize?
Answer: A final class cannot be instantiated, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.
The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block.
The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.

What is a constructor ?
Answer: it is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A: YES

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans. default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans. keyword "this" is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans. "Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class.
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
 A: Java vartual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
   Yes

What version of java are you using?
   Ans:  version 11.0.1

What is JAR stand for ?
A: JAR stands for "Java ARchive".

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans. JDK is Kit which provides the environment to develop and execute(run) the Java program.
JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program
line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans. JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program
line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.
JRE) is an installation package which provides environment to only run(not develop) the java program(or application)
onto your machine.


What is compile time and run time?
Answer: The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program.
 This compilation process is referred to as compile time.
A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.

What is heap?
A: The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
A singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A:-- Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be
persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object
from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
A:--  transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization,
if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A:--difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked
 at first but, in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
 So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.

What is Enum?
A: - Enum in java is a data type that contains fixed set of constants

What is Iterator?
A:  Iterator through a list of elements

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A:- int is one of several integer types. Some may be smaller than int, some may be larger,
 and some may be the same size, depending on the particular implementation you’re using

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A: - Strings immutable it is possible to cache them more aggressively
(e.g., the intern() method), access them from multiple threads

What is constructor chaining in Java?
constructor chaining is calling one constructor with in another constructor.
Either a class can call its own constructor or its parent constructor to achieve constructor chaining

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans: a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collection thread for the Garbage
 Collection operation,  while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage Collection threads for the
 Garbage Collection operation

What is JIT stands for?
A: It stands for “just in time”. It’s a manufacturing philosophy which
 involves producing the finished goods at the precise moment when the customer wants them.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. ... When the heap becomes full,garbage is
 collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared,
  thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
NO

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic memory allocation, both stored
in the computer's RAM . Variables allocated on the stack are stored directly to the memory and access
to this memory is very fast, and it's allocation is dealt with when the program is compiled.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A: - Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. Java Reflection makes it possible
  to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the
  classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A:-- Multithreading in Java is a very important topic. I have written a lot about Threads in Java.
 Java Thread is a lightweight process that executes some task.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A: Synchronization makes sure that only one thread will be executing at a time.

What is Framework?
A:  framework is a concrete or conceptual platform where common code with generic functionality
   can be selectively specialized or overridden by developers or users.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
         -Selenium
         -Arquillian
        - JTest
        - The Grinder
        - TestNG
        - JUnit
        - JWalk
        - Mockito
        - Powermoc
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A: Both testng and Junit are testing framework used for unit testing. TestNG is similar to
 JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
A:  TexstNG, JUnit, Maven

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A: Static binding occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.
 private , final and static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler
 while virtual methods are bonded during runtime based upon runtime object.









