Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. >>Data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a computer so that it can be
     accessed and modified efficiently.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. >>The operations are performed on data structures are as follows:
 Insertion: Insertion is addition of a new data element in a data structure.

Deletion: Deletion is removal of a data element from a data structure.
A. >>The name of areas are: Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical
 analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence and Simulation.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. >>The name of areas are: Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package,
Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence and Simulation.

what is an Array?git
A. >>An array is the context of Java. It is a dynamically created object that serves as a container to hold constant
 number of values of the same type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. >>Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element
 is a separate object with a data part and address part.

what is LinkedList?
A. >>Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are not stored in contiguous
locations and every element is a separate object with a data part and address part.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.>> Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. On the other hand,
 Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references to the previous and next element.

what is queue?
A.>>Queue is a collection of ordered elements or objects but it performs insert and remove operations differently.

what is stack?
A.>>Stack memory is used for execution of a thread.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.>>FIFO (first-in, first-out) is an approach to handling program work requests from queues or stacks so that
 the oldest request is handled next. LIFO (last-in, first-out) is an approach in which the most recent
  request is handled next and the oldest request doesn't get handled until it is the only remaining request on the queue.

what is the order of complexity?
A.>>It is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input and the algorithm finishes between two
factors of it. Generally, the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm, the
faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.>>The best case running time of an algorithm is the function defined by the
minimum number of steps taken on any instance of size.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.>>The worst case running time of an algorithm is the function defined by
the maximum number of steps taken on any instance of size.

what is tree in data structure?
A. >>Tree represents the nodes connected by edges.

what is graph in data structure?
A.>>Graph is set of items connected by edges. Each item is called a vertex or node. A graph is a set of vertices and
  a binary relation between vertices, adjacency.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.>>1. HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can’t be shared between many threads without proper
synchronization code whereas Hashtable is synchronized. It is thread-safe and can be shared with many threads.
2. HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn’t allow any null key or value.
3. HashMap is generally preferred over HashTable if thread synchronization is not needed

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.>>   RDBMS – Array
         Network data model – Graph
         Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A.>>HashMap works on the principle of hashing, we have put() and get() method for storing and retrieving object from HashMap.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.>>ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is a Runtime Exception thrown only at runtime. The Java Compiler does not
check for this error during the compilation of a program.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.>>We can directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method.
     public static int[] copyOf(int[] original,int newLength)

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.>>An array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under a common heading
 or a variable name. While a linked list is a data structure which contains a sequence of the
 elements where each element is linked to its next element.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.>>The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing
 and searching a node in a graph.

What is Recursion?
A.>> Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously. A method in java that calls itself is called recursive method.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.>>The linear data structure arranges the data into a sequence and follow sort of order. Whereas, the non-linear data structure does not organize the data in a sequential manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.>>Big O notation is used in to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A. >>Insertion sort,Selection sort,Merge sort,Heapsort,Quicksort,Bubble sort,Shellsort,Comb sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


